---
layout: post
title: "Reactive Applications with Vert.x"
speaker: "Galder Zamarreño"
date: 2014-04-10 18:30:00
---
Vert.x is an open source platform for developing asynchronous, event-driven, reactive applications for the JVM. In this talk you'll learn how to develop scalable, resilient and reactive applications using Vert.x which are perfectly suited for real-time web applications, taking full advantage of multi-core architectures. As a seasoned Java programmer, you'll be developing Vert.x applications in minutes, but if you really want to master Vert.x you have to embrace functional programming. No need to wait for Java 8 though to do functional programming in the JVM. You can develop Vert.x applications in a functional style using Scala, a programming language that mixes object orientation and functional programming providing expressiveness and conciseness that are unmatched by Java. Both the Scala and Java approaches will be demonstrated live in this presentation.

**Speaker**

**Galder Zamarreño** is a JBoss Core R&D Engineer working for Red Hat. He is the lead of the Scala language extension for Vert.x, an asynchronous, event-driven, lightweight application plattform for the JVM that's designed for modern, web, and enterprise applications. He's also part of the Infinispan project, which is at the core of Red Hat JBoss Data Grid, where he's building next generation, distributed data grid software based on multiple languages. Galder has been worked with distributed, highly available, systems for almost 10 years and during that time, on top of building systems based on JBoss middleware, he's also worked in the retail industry building extremely scalable EFT software. The love for distributed systems and open source software comes from his days at ESIDE faculty at University of Deusto (Bilbao, Spain) where he studied a master's degree in Computer Science. Finally, Galder previously spoken in conferences such as Devoxx Belgium, GOTO (former JAOO), GeeCON, SoftShake, Red Hat Summit/JBoss World and JUDCon.

<div style="width:100%; text-align:left;" ><iframe  src="https://www.eventbrite.fr/tickets-external?eid=11099203015&ref=etckt" frameborder="0" height="214" width="100%" vspace="0" hspace="0" marginheight="5" marginwidth="5" scrolling="auto" allowtransparency="true"></iframe><div style="font-family:Helvetica, Arial; font-size:10px; padding:5px 0 5px; margin:2px; width:100%; text-align:left;" ><a style="color:#ddd; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank" href="http://www.eventbrite.fr/r/etckt">Inscription pour un événement</a><span style="color:#ddd;"> pour </span><a style="color:#ddd; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank" href="https://jugl-vertx.eventbrite.fr/?ref=etckt">Reactive Applications with Vert.x</a> <span style="color:#ddd;">réalisé par</span> <a style="color:#ddd; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank" href="http://www.eventbrite.fr?ref=etckt">Eventbrite</a></div></div>