---
layout: post
title: "SPRING FRAMEWORK 4.1 – WHAT’S NEW"
speaker: "Sam Brannen"
date: 2015-03-19 18:30:00
---

Spring Framework 4.1 is the latest release of the popular open source application framework for Java developers with continued innovation for Java SE 8 and enterprise Java. In this presentation core Spring committer Sam Brannen will provide attendees an overview of the new enterprise features in the framework as well as new programming models and testing features.
Specifically, this talk will cover support for annotation-driven JMS listeners, JMS 2.0′s shared subscriptions, JCache (JSR-107) annotations, a compiler mode for the Spring Expression Language (SpEL), flexible resolution and transformation of static web resources, and Web MVC support for Groovy markup templates.

The presentation also provides an overview of Spring 4.1′s refinements in other areas, for example: Java 8′s Optional type for injection points, declarative MVC view resolution, Jackson’s JsonView, WebSocket scope, SockJS client support, declarative SQL scripts and programmatic transactions in the TestContext framework, integration testing with Groovy scripts, and more.

##### Speaker

Sam Brannen is a Senior Software Consultant with over 15 years’ experience, a graduate of the Georgia Tech College of Computing, and co-founder of Swiftmind, a software consulting agency in Zurich, Switzerland. At Swiftmind Sam helps international clients achieve best practices in agile software development, architecture, design, implementation, and testing of enterprise Java applications using the Spring Framework and a plethora of open source technologies. In his consulting role, Sam most enjoys leading work shops, code reviews, coaching, and training clients.
Sam is a popular speaker at conferences on Java and Spring. He is also an active core committer for the Spring Framework, author of the Spring TestContext Framework, and was previously a core developer of SpringSource dm Server (a.k.a., Eclipse Virgo).
Over the years, Sam has helped clients build applications in various business sectors ranging from e-commerce to banking, retail, automotive, and social communities. When not in front of his computer, Sam enjoys traveling and spending time with family and friends.
